--- 
layout: post
title: Tolstoy Essay
post_id: "265"
categories:
- Human Interaction
---
Well, I finally finished that fucking essay that I had to write for my comp. lit. class.  I'm a bit proud of it actually; it's three quarters sincere and one quarters bullshit, though it's hastily put together and isn't the greatest of prose.  It does, however, seem to cover at least some of my thoughts on human interaction in general.  Here it is, don't worry if it makes no sense, there's a lot of assumptions I've made about the reader's knowledge on what went on in the lectures.

### THE ESSAY

The kernel of human love is relatively unchanged through the history of man.  There are of course ever increasing complexities and ever changing societal norms that dictate what is conventional and what is expected in an interaction, but the very core of love, the type of love that is unshakable and is anything but conventional, is something that remains unchanged between generations.  It is the intense passion that one feels toward another person, free from any sort of constraints.  However, this often runs contrary to what they believe to be true, and the enormity of accepting a contrary but inevitably true position perpetuates the person’s fear of accepting it completely.  When we come across different events, we do the deed that brings the event to a conclusion, and depending on how critical it is of our own humanity, it transforms us to a degree.  However, when we come to the greatest of termini, the one that not only brings an event to a conclusion but also scrapes closely with our own humanity, it has a great propensity to transform who we are as a human, for in terminus lies transformation.  The lens that we will use to analyze this phenomenon will be through Charles’ predicament at the end of Four Weddings and a Funeral and through the eventual death of Andrei.

Throughout Four Weddings and a Funeral, Charles and a group of his friends attend different weddings with the hopes of finding a wife, which is the only revealed way to “true love.”  It is by its very nature conventional; in order to be a part of society and to maneuver through it successfully, one of the things one must do is to marry another person.  Because it is conventional, there is a hint of human insincerity associated with it, since it is a social construct that one must forcefully put themselves through in order to be associated with said society.  The same can be said with Andrei’s quest to become a glorious hero through a glorious death; it is the greatest thing that one could achieve yet it is conventional - it is something that everyone expects of a soldier when he goes to war.

Instead, what happens is that Charles finds emptiness in such an enterprise, as much as Andrei finds nothing in a glorious death.  However, it isn’t until they clash with the onset of a terminus that they find the emptiness in such conventions.  In Charles’ case, he starts to see how empty the marriage proceedings are when Carrie reveals that she is separated; true love is rediscovered, he breaks the wedding plans and he commits non-marriage to Carrie.  For Andrei, as he struggles with retaining himself in the material world and fearing the usurpation of his life, he finally discovers that there is a sort of emptiness in holding so closely with his ego and with his body; he finds true love with Natasha, he finally greets death with open arms, and finally finds simplicity in life.

It is this sort of simplicity that motivates termini.  When we drift far away from the simplicity of human interaction and delve into the complexities of man made constructs, we become complacent and disconnected.  And then, suddenly, there is something that connects us back to the baser ideas of humanity, something that shows us that there is something simpler than the juggling acts of high society, yet it is something that we normally avoided out of fear and contempt.  It is related to the issue of the destruction of the wish with a simple deed; the deed is closer to the base ideas of “human,” whereas the wish is a man-made construct that seeks to further disconnect man from his humanity.  The deed, in this case, is the act that brings one to terminus, and therefore, a transformation.  It destroys his wish to be a grander human than himself as well as destroy, implicitly, the wish of others for the man in question to become a man of society rather than a man of humanity.

Marriage, by its nature, is complex, since it is a construct made by man.  Since it is not simple, it cannot possibly be close to what true love is.  True love can sprout from marriage, but it would be completely peripheral to the act of marrying someone; that is, marriage does not, by itself, motivate the idea of true love.  In Four Weddings and a Funeral, Charles, ignorant near the beginning of the movie, rejects marriage with Carrie after sleeping with her, because in his mind, marriage is tied completely to true love, and since he does not truly love her, he does not marry her.  She is equally as ignorant to the separation and takes it as a sign of non-interest.  However, at the end of the movie, Carrie’s separation from Hamish and Charles’ realization that he does not truly love Henrietta destroys the societal notion of marriage equaling true love.  This destruction of complexity is done only through terminus, and through that destruction is there a transformation.

The fear of the unknown is something that we cannot ever dispel, since if we could dispel it, then we would have transcended time, which cannot be done.  The frantic rationalization of this unknown – in this case, the rationalization of death – is complex.  We postulate that there is a way to greet death or that there is a way to avoid it, or to even live life in order to have as good of a death as possible.  This is, however, a complex layering of rationalizations that simply abstracts away the notion of simplicity in the act.  Humans die, and that is it; there is no other way to go around it, it simply happens and it is thus a natural terminus.  The fear of death before we die is there due to societal constraints, since we wish to accomplish more before we die.  The acceptance of death as a terminus by the dying releases their bond to what is complex and accepts death for what it is: a natural terminus, something that is inevitable, something that they cannot stop and must accept as true.

So is the terminus inevitable?  Is it in its nature such that there is no leeway in action when we approach a terminus; that is, do we lose our free will in the face of circumstance?  It is inevitable, but we do have the free will to delay it.  But once it arrives, it is not avoidable, we cannot delay it any further, the only way it will be resolved is if it happens right then and there.  In the case of death, we can leap away and dance around the subject as well as not accept the fact that we are going to die when we are on our death bed, but it will happen no matter what.  For Charles, the terminus can be delayed if he chose to marry Henrietta, but he chose to simply accept the terminus as it is and transform himself in the process.  In fact, if he married Henrietta, since he does not love her and has his own heart in Carrie, he would have had to face the terminus anyway no matter what.  When we do face the terminus however, we only have two choices, which are to face it right then and there or to delay it, which simply leads to another two choice branch later in time.  If we have more than two choices, then we have not reached a terminus, but rather an insignificant event that simply compounds on the person’s beliefs rather than transform him in a significant way that a terminus would.

In conclusion, Andrei and Charles both find simplicity in human interaction, but cannot possibly have come to that conclusion without a terminus that cuts their ties to the complexities of societal constructs.  It is through this terminus that they find transformation; in Andrei’s case, it is the approaching terminus of incipient death that leads him to find true love in Natasha and love for life in itself rather than the egotistical accomplishments that are accomplished in said life.  For Charles, the terminus of marriage causes him to find true love in Carrie, and to strip away the complexities of marriage and to find the core of human essence in his love for Carrie.  These transformations were inevitable as they tumbled around in the world trying to find such things within the boundaries of society, until the inevitable terminus hits them in the head and brings them back down to reality.
