--- 
layout: post
title: Mish mash
post_id: "305"
categories:
- Beer
- Human Interaction
- Mcluhan
- Random
- Religion
- Tv
---
I've loads of crap that I've gotta sort through in my head, but well, I'll try to talk about them in some capacity.

First up is media theory.  An old dude that I ran into over at Allegro talked a lot about Marshall McLuhan, who is the sole founder of media theory and is the originator of the infamous quote, "the media is the message"; that is, he states in part that it does not even matter what is said, what matters in general is the medium in which the statements are communicated through.  This somewhat explains why politics and many things in general are tending toward cleaning up the image rather than the policy, because no one cares about what is said, but rather the image that is presented.  McLuhan says that TV lends itself to an audience who does not pay attention after six or seven minutes, and therefore, the medium has an intrinsic property that lends itself to a more superficial presentation of information, namely, a presentation dependent on image that hooks viewers rather than anything substantial.

Second, religion.  I myself have been trying to read a bit of Tao Te Ching here and there, though I'm not sure if I would really consider it a religion even it's often listed as one.  I'm pretty sure I've noted that a while ago, but I've been also been reflecting upon some of the things that I would've looked at with any other lens and see that a lot of things have started to become clear, namely, the concept of success and failure.  Failure is seen as a terrible state to be in, something where if you want to find yourself in a better spot in life, you'll have to learn from that failure and be sure that you don't fall in the same rut again.  Similarly, success is an ideal state to be in and it should be pursued as much as possible.  However, at least through the lens of Taoism, both states are complimentary and, dare I say it, inherently meaningless.  That is, failure is very much on an equal plane as success, yet if we are talking about Taoism, failure and success are completely foreign concepts that are only evident largely in Western societies.  Thus, stripping away the connotations of failure and success will lead to a greater understanding of the dynamics in which the two concepts are complimentary.

Oh, and I was talking to a coworker of mine about monotheistic religions, mostly Catholicism and Protestantism.  Apologies in advance if you Protestants are offended, but a lot of Protestant sects seem to rely mostly on evangelicalism versus intellectualism, which is what the Catholic Church espouses.  On top of that, the Catholic Church is often much more accepting and tolerant of everyone, though they do try to lead those who choose to investigate Catholicism toward becoming a Catholic and truly understanding what must be changed, what virtues must be learned, etc.  Protestantism, on the other hand, is highly exclusionary and will simply shove everyone who does not fit a certain image out of the way and will also denigrate their being.

I don't really have much more insights to give on what my coworker said, other than the fact that it's highly interesting.  Maybe I'll have a cup of coffee outside of work with him sometime, I'm definitely interested in hearing more.

Uh... let's see... I went to a bar with a friend of mine earlier this evening.  The place is called "The Hop Vine," which had open mic and a bunch of classy beers on tap (Rogue Shakespeare Stout is fucking good, I have to say.)  My friend also ended up playing his guitar on open mic, which was great to see.  I met a few people he knew, namely his former guitar teacher from SU and a mutual friend.  It was good times, though I should've brought my pack of smokes, since I ended up bumming cigarettes from four or five different people throughout the night.

Y'know, when I was talking to that old violin dude last night over at Allegro, I noticed that there was an ambulance that sat in the Allegro parking lot with its engine on.  The old guy went to the ambulance and told them to turn off their engine, to which they replied that they are there because they get "good wifi" in the parking lot.  Hah.  A great summary of our society at large, if you ask me. :p

I don't know what else to say.  That's pretty much what's been happening over the past few days.
