--- 
layout: post
title: The abundance of convenience
post_id: "335"
categories:
- Human Interaction
- Philosophy
---
I was talking to my brother's coworker last night outside of a bar in Belltown about various things, mostly touching upon how we take a lot of things for granted in this country.  We have an abundance of convenience where we have multiple choices of everything (and in great quantities) and are therefore spoiled by the sheer availability of goods.  The mere thought of having one of something is very disgusting to us, as that implies that we are not cashing in in our abundance and in our "right to choose" whatever we want.  On top of that, we want things instantly without much hassle and wait.  This convenience is, again, in great abundance; businesses compete along the lines of convenience and abundance of features and things when marketing to the consumer, and since we gear these products toward consumers, we also try our hardest to CONVINCE them, somehow, that this is a great thing to have and that this partaking in our abundant conveniences will somehow improve their life in some way.

Since we are spoiled by such abundances of convenience, we also tend to apply the same concept to interpersonal relationships.  We want people to be available whenever possible.  An extreme but not all that uncommon example of this sort of behavior is when we gain a friendship, "use" the friendship until it wears out, then discard it as if it were a piece of outdated furniture.  Advice on how to improve one's life typically include something about removing all of those people in their life who bog them down or simply retooling the friendship to their needs.  A very hedonistic and narcissistic concept, but it is indeed something that is prevalent in American society.

Individualism, by itself, is as great of a concept as tribalism, but when twisted by a force that ensnares people and throws the "individualism" out of the window yet puts it back in as a smoke screen, it becomes something very nasty and selfish.  Even if we can, in some respects, make our own free choices, when we're sedated with having all of these conveniences, we become uniformly lazy and uniformly apathetic, though through the lens of "free choice" by means of freely choosing material goods, we mistakenly believe that we are, indeed, making a free choice.  The illusion of "free choice" when dealing with material goods is simply ensnaring us further with visuals and advertisement; we value more the presentation than survivability.  When we are in a society with only one of each type of foods in a given store, we end up valuing these goods even more; when we desire something more luxurious, we'd have to toil to find this item in another market, even if this "more luxurious" thing is simply another equal, "free" choice in American society.

Does quantity of goods (as well as quantity of choices) necessarily correlate with uniformity?  Probably not, though it seems to become much more relevant as an influencing force when we turn toward consumption rather than production and direct bartering.  The fluctuation of quantities and choices directly affect our psyches and our temperament toward a particular business, and thus, when one business does not provide, we go to another, and if that doesn't provide, we go to yet another business, etc.  In short, we as a people are directly affected by the economies of material goods; when we don't see choice, we take our dollar elsewhere, like what any other good capitalist would do.  However, in other societies, we have to live off of what we have because there are no other choices, which, while inconvenient, is also humanizing, since it also ties communities together when there are shortages of a particular good, in which the entire community must cooperate with each other in order to satiate our needs for these goods.

Again, as my brother's coworker said, we're fortunate to have the fortune of plenty, but in another light, is also a curse.  And also, unfortunately, as I've mentioned a thousand times before in my previous blog posts, it's also impossible to escape this influence unless we break away from our society and implant ourselves in another.
