--- 
layout: post
title: No escape
post_id: "324"
categories:
- Human Interaction
- Philosophy
---
We act within our society and never outside of it.  There is no escape from the collective thought patterns and perceptions borne within the people in a given society.

To elaborate: our actions and thoughts are motivated purely by what's around us.  We grow up in a way that is quite similar to the way anyone else would grow up in our overall society.

When we grow up in a society with others, we don't necessarily have the same answers or ask the same questions on various topics between ourselves; the main thing to note, however, is the fact that there are questions that are NOT thought of at all within a society, mainly because we approach subjects in a certain manner that do not reveal much of the other possible questions.  In other words, we are first born with an unhampered vision of what's around us, though our vision increasingly narrows for every minute we spend in our newfound environment as the biases in the presentation of the environment - through language and other means - starts to seep into our perception of the world until our perception bias matches the biases within the presentation itself.

All of the above gets me to my next point: when we ask questions specifically on human nature, we typically answer in whatever way is natural for all of us living in our own society.  For instance, a lot of people here in the United States would say that man is, by nature, individualistic and greedy.  People that live in a more family/group oriented society would probably say that humans tend to group together for the common good; that is, the atomic unit of human groups varies between cultures rather than it being a constant.  Thus, there is no ingenuity when one thinks of rebellion in an individualistic society, as the same as there would be no ingenuity when one ponders about becoming socially conservative in a more group oriented society; these biases and behaviors are all to be expected!

I guess what I'm trying to say is that there's no use in thinking that there is uniqueness in a society, that we can rebel and see results (though the issue of the "rebel without a cause" can be another discussion altogether), that universal human nature is based around a trait that is true only in a certain type of society, etc.

Yep.  More later.
