--- 
layout: post
title: TV
post_id: "296"
categories:
- Human Interaction
- Tv
---
I avoid watching TV.  I haven't watched TV in any real capacity for a couple of years now and found how degenerative it can be.  I hate saying this, but well, it also sickens me to see my family being more up to date with what's going on on TV than with what's going on around us.  Often, I cannot talk to them during dinner because the TV in the living room is on, their eyes glued to whatever is on the TV for the entire meal.

I find that I can't even communicate with some of my peers, since they spend a lot of time talking about what's on TV, as well as going as far as spewing out manufactured jokes from whatever TV series.  Maybe I'm out of touch with pop culture, though I don't really care too much, since I find conversations on what's actually going on around us to be much more interesting than talking about Survivor or whatever else.

The TV has a way of grabbing people's attentions to the point of causing anger and frustration when said attention is broken for even a fraction of a second.  "Can't miss any piece of the dialogue, the entire show will be ruined!"  No it won't, the shit is way too predictable no matter what sort of plot twists or inane quirks they throw in the wheel.

That's not to mention the effect it has on aesthetic, views on life and our humanity: we've come to the point where we simply want to delve into escapism and entertain ourselves with what's not in front of us but rather some sort of abstraction delivered via antenna direct to your TV screen.  Furthermore, our sense of style is derived almost completely from TV manufactured artificially rather than through natural social trends.

I guess all I'm saying is that for those who haven't stopped watching TV: stop.  I personally find more joy in talking to other people and prying for any inner wisdom that they might have - hopefully informed completely through their experiences rather than through a TV product - than watching TV.  I realize that TV isn't exactly THE problem in terms of whatever malaise our society might have, but getting rid of it seems to be the best way to regain a sense of connectedness to what's around us.
