--- 
layout: post
title: Journeys
post_id: "361"
categories:
- Conversation
- Personal
---
I've already somewhat figured out a haphazard way of healing that might help me out considerably, which is to engage myself in conversation and throw myself into the world.

However, I've also realized that I've burned a lot of bridges in the past due to a number of factors, so I've decided to see if reconciling with those who I've lost contact with in the past will help out a bit, especially with those from Seattle University.  There's always something about rekindling contact and seeing how everyone else is doing, despite any major problems that might have happened in the past.  Admittedly, this seems like a bit of an exercise of egotism, but I feel that recreating these sorts of connections and seeing where everything lies after much change will, at the very least, set things into perspective, and will also hopefully lead to a reinvigorated friendship.

I've met someone a couple of nights ago who seems to be going along the same journey as I am.  Some of the things she said kinda put things into perspective for me, such as listening to everyone without pride in order to establish conversation and compromise in a relationship, which is definitely a major thing I still have to work on.  To be honest, I can't thank her enough for that bit of knowledge, however "small" it may be; I really needed to hear someone say it.

I've no idea where I'm really going at the moment, but I have a few options open to me after college, outside of working:

<ol>
<li>Go into the Peace Corps after college: I'll admit, I'm not much of an altruistic person when it comes to these things, though I associate much better with those who struggle than the middle and upper classes, who are generally living comfortably without much perspective.  So in that sense, I wouldn't mind being in the Peace Corps for a year or so.  And... of course, there's the peripheral benefit of getting all of my college loans paid off. :)</li>
<li>Go into graduate school for math: This is the most ideal option, since I'd be doing research in something I love studying in the first place, though my grades have been taking the turn for the suck as time goes on.  I'm also not all too confident about how I would perform in grad school considering my track record in college, but eh, academia is my sort of bag anyway.</li>
<li>Go into graduate school for something other than pure math: I wouldn't mind this either.  I was thinking either Philosophy, English, some sort of math related field, or whatever else.</li>
<li>Travel: I really want to do this, yet it's impossible, considering the stacks of student loans that I have under my name.  But this is also a very ideal option that I'd take in an ideal world; I also don't mean traveling as in sightseeing, but traveling as in, "I take only what's on my back and whatever's in my pocket, and make do as I go."</li>
</ol>

So yeah, I'm still unsure.  I'm taking everything in stride at the moment, though I feel like I've no real coherent direction aside from what little academics I'm grasping on at the moment; even though I do love academics, I really really am getting burnt out with the whole grade pursuit deal.

In any case, I've written way too much, I'll probably post more about this later.
