--- 
layout: post
title: The dumbing down of education and its relation to television
post_id: "416"
categories:
- Education
- Mcluhan
- Postman
- Television
- Tv
---
<p>I'm finally done with <u>Amusing Ourselves to Death</u> by Neil Postman. Some of the points he made about how education has changed through the new epistemologies of television were quite convincing.</p>
<p>The reframing of traditional, contextualized and continuous education into the fragmented, non-contextual and <span style="font-style: italic;">entertaining</span> world of television starts reframing education in children's eyes as <span style="font-style: italic;">having</span> to be entertaining. There are claims that this is a good pedagogical methodology for education and that it actually increases comprehension in many different fields of study. However, curricula based around the format of <span style="font-style: italic;">televisable entertainment</span> has to be <span style="font-style: italic;">televisable</span>; that is, the topics chosen must entertain the crowd, which most likely will be tangential to any sort of serious academic pursuit, as anything televisable must be sufficiently dumbed down and fragmented enough to appeal to the entertainment-hungry students. It is enough that this way of thinking has already manifested itself in various high schools around the country (case in point: the math curriculum in place in many high schools around the country), yet this pedagogy is seeping into college curricula as well in the form of entertaining gestures in lectures, etc.</p>
<p>Our reliance on moving images and pictures, which is concrete and non-contextual, from our upbringing around the television has hampered our ability to reason in the realm of abstract ideas, which relies on context and a continuum of lessons. This has other ramifications in education: our textbooks are now filled with pictures and diagrams in order to confirm for the reader the abstract idea in question, which means that once we encounter a book without such pictures and diagrams, we wallow in confusion until we can draw a manifest of the concept. From what I can gather, this was never a problem in education until today, where we rely too much on imagery for guidance. Also, it drives in the point that education can be approached by picking out a random topic and getting an entertaining crash course on the topic without any sort of context or motivation for the ideas; this is especially alarming, as academic topics are (obviously) much deeper than a simple televised episode, and must be approached with fervor and determination.</p>
<p>Besides, to what ends does computerized and televised educational methodologies seek to totally replace the current educational system? I would contend that it's meant to totally replace it, at least in the high school and primary school systems; teachers today who are more accepting of these pedagogical methodologies are more likely to give up their power as an instructor to computer and television programs.</p>
<p>I remember taking a class in high school that was on Cisco Networking. In a lot of ways, it's the best example that I can come up with that demonstrates the curricula changes talked about earlier: the class featured computer-based lessons and tests that were administered solely by the student, as well as weekly "meetings" where people from Microsoft come in and talk to us about business stuff, like how to present ourselves in an interview, etc. These meetings, however, were quite entertaining yet also had zero substance to them; that is, I learned nothing, the other students even admitted that they learned nothing (as well as admitting that it was <span style="font-style: italic;">entertaining</span>) when the presenters were asking for feedback on their weekly "meetings."</p>
<p>Of course, proverbial evidence is hardly proof enough for the existence of these problems, but I am sure that everyone who has taken a class within the past ten or twenty years will have at least one or two classes that exhibited the same characteristics of entertaining fluff with no substance. Such is the effect of the fun-loving culture that we live in today.</p>
